---
name: Wenlong Mu
image: images/members/wenlong-mu.jpg
role: phdstu
grade: 2021
description: 
links:
  email: wenlongmu@stu.ecnu.edu.cn
  orcid: 0000-0001-6275-7701
  github: onroadmuwl
---

Wenlong Mu is a doctoral student in the SOLE laboratory, class of 2021, enrolled in a combined master’s–doctoral program, and is expected to graduate by the end of 2026. His primary research interests include binary analysis and post-linking optimization. During the majority of his time in the SOLE laboratory, he has collaborated closely with industry partners, and most of his research topics aim to address real-world industrial needs. 

He joined the SOLE laboratory in 2021 as a master’s student and began exploring research areas related to binary instrumentation. He later proposed [a hotspot-driven framework](https://doi.org/10.1145/3578360.3580255) for identifying compiler optimization opportunities. By comparing the binaries generated by open-source compilers with those generated by closed-source commercial compilers, the framework helped industry partners identify optimization opportunities in open-source compilers and provided detailed optimization recommendations. These compiler optimizations contributed to improved SPEC CPU 2017 benchmark scores.

Subsequently, the emergence of optimization tools such as BOLT and Propeller has highlighted the benefits of code layout optimizations at the post-link stage, particularly for workloads with large code size. However, on most ARM servers, the lack of dedicated hardware similar to Intel’s Last Branch Record (LBR) makes it challenging to obtain accurate branch information for code layout optimizations. Moreover, prior to their work, there was no online binary optimization system targeting programs written in unmanaged languages on AArch64. To address these challenges, he proposed [FlexInstru](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2025.112739) and [AOBO](https://doi.org/10.1145/3736170) to enable efficient profiling and effective online binary optimization on AArch64. 

While addressing these research challenges, he recognized the need for sustained and deeper investigation, which motivated his transition from the master’s to the doctoral program within the SOLE laboratory. Currently, he continues to work on new research topics in system optimization, with the goal of producing further contributions in the SOLE laboratory.

{% include section.html %}

## Publications

- **Wenlong Mu**, Ning Li, Zimo Ji, Jianmei Guo, and Bo Huang. 2026. FlexInstru: A flexible instrumentation framework for tracing long-running native workloads. Journal of Systems and Software 234 (2026), 112739. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2025.112739
- **Wenlong Mu**, Yue Tang, Bo Huang, and Jianmei Guo. 2025. AOBO: A Fast-Switching Online Binary Optimizer on AArch64. ACM Trans. Archit. Code Optim. 22, 2, Article 82 (June 2025), 27 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3736170
- **Wenlong Mu**, Yilei Zhang, Bo Huang, Jianmei Guo, and Shiqiang Cui. 2023. A Hotspot-Driven Semi-automated Competitive Analysis Framework for Identifying Compiler Key Optimizations. In Proceedings of the 32nd ACM SIGPLAN International Conference on Compiler Construction (CC 2023). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 216–227. https://doi.org/10.1145/3578360.3580255
- 专利: **牟文龙**, 黄波, 郭健美. 一种支持多平台的在线二进制优化方法、优化系统及应用. 授权号: CN119493573B (2025-12-05)
- 专利: 刘通宇, **牟文龙**, 于兆熙, 黄波, 郭健美. 热点驱动的、结合插桩与性能事件采样的工作负载特征分析方法及分析系统. 公开号: CN115328643A (2022-11-11)

## Projects

- 华东师大-鸿钧微电子校企合作: ARM服务器CPU软硬件协同优化合作项目 (2022-03 ~ 2024-06)
- 华东师大-华为校企合作: 动态反馈优化框架及关键技术研究技术合作项目 (2024-09 ~ 2025-08)
